---
title: 'Blog Post number 3'
date: 2023-10-17
permalink: /posts/2023/10/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

The first time I became aware of the concept of artificial intelligence (AI) was from Jarvis in Iron Man. However, today’s development of AI is much far from that level...

Headings are cool
======
Today, my internship, which lasted for three and a half months, came to an end, and it is necessary to give it a summary.

Firstly, regarding the work content, it started with making improvements to an existing simple module and eventually required me to independently design and develop a large module on myself. There were also bug fix tasks along the way. At Bytedance, any development task needs to go through a complete set of procedures to merge the code into the code repository. This development process greatly reduces the occurrence of major incidents. However, since all code requires code reviews, it resulted in a lot of code reviews for development projects with simple functionality but extensive code changes, which ultimately affected the merging progress. Overall, Bytedance has a very high work efficiency, and the work content is also very challenging. After becoming familiar with the project in the first few days, I immediately started working on actual production tasks. The initial projects may have been more in line with the role of an intern, but once fully acclimated, the work content was not much different from that of a full-time employee.

As for my impression of this internship, it has been a very positive experience, especially for my first internship. Within Bytedance, there are no complex and tedious processes, and there aren't many formalities in meetings. Efficiency and practicality are prioritized.

Lastly, the gains from this internship are indeed rich. Through three months of learning, I have developed good coding habits and learned excellent code frameworks. I have also gained a deeper understanding of the open-source community. Besides, although my position is called C++ development, I also worked on tasks related to Python and testing, which greatly enhanced my comprehensive programming abilities.